---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Thoughts On Open Source
---

# Origins of Free/Open Source

From our discussions in class about the founders of great open source programs, I saw a few patterns. A lot of the projects were made after the founders failed at monetizing something in the dot-com bubble era, and a lot of the people had very unique temperaments as well. I don't remember the details too much from other groups, but my group looked a Jimmy Wales who was a cofounder of Wikipedia.

<!--more-->

Wales had multiple failed for-profit encyclopedia ventures such as a wiki for adult content (actors and movies) and a website that was like wikipedia except it was extremely rigorous and required peer review from a board of experts whenever a page was to be added or changed. Wales had controversy after he made it big, being involved in a scandal where he allegedly took money from his non-profit wikimedia foundation and used it for his own personal purposes.

# Group Progress

Our group initially wanted to work on Brave browser because their organization seems very robust and they have a very strong engine going for contributions. After we looked deeper, though, we noticed that most of the contributors are Brave employees and we got a bit sussed out. After some more deliberation, we decided that we instead want to work on Gitlab since they also have a robust system going on that seems to be working well and efficiently. We haven't decided on it completely, but things are pointing towards us working on Gitlab unless we find something very wrong with the project soon. If we decide we aren't doing Gitlab, we will instead work on Calibre. Calibre holds the hands of contributors significantly less and doesn't have as strong of a community, but I use it every day so it has a big personal tie with me.