---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Extensions
---

# Making an extension

This week, we finished up the work on our browser extension and got to look at what other people made in class. I didn't really make any epiphanies or anything about myself and how I work in a group because I've been taking a lot of classes that have group work recently so I know how things go and where I fit in the puzzle usually. In our group specifically, everyone did their part and pitched in accordingly without any fuss which was very nice.

<!--more-->

In making our extension, as noted last week, I came up with the logic for how the extension would work when the user turned it on as well as some skeleton code with all the required functions. I also wrote the code for some of the functions and laid out how the logic should work in some comments. I learned how to work with YouTube's HTML when I want to manipulate things with extensions, and I am inspired to do more like this in the future where I make an extension that plays with the YouTube page.

# Other Extensions

My favorite extension by far that was showcased in class was the productivity booster extension that pulled up subway surfers and other various lizard brain abusing videos to help users focus on their work. I am inspired by this extension to make something similar on my own that's a bit more sophisticated and doesn't reduce the size of your main task to one tenth of your screen. I also like the pomodoro app that was presented, there are existing pomodoro apps out there but their UI's are all absolutely horrendous so any innovation in this field is great. 