---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Code of Conduct
---
### Importance
Although it is usually tucked away in a hidden little spot at the bottom of the website, a project's Code of Conduct page is a very important piece of the puzzle nonetheless because it helps form the basis for how a project is viewed by others. Interactions between contributors among themselves and outsiders is largely publically viewable whether this is through forums or troubleshooting pages. Having high-level contributors that conduct themselves well reflects brightly for a project, and the converse is true if they are rude and display that they are not well-adjusted.

<!--more--> 

The Code of Conduct is also a direct opportunity for projects to lay out exactly what kind of community they would like to have working on them. Writers are able to list out the values they are looking for, and warn people who do not share the same values to either shape up or leave. Looking at our in-class activity, Go was trying to build up a community that followed their 'Gopher Values', whereas Mozilla laid out a detailed guide on how to have empathy for your fellow humans and be kind to others in general.

### Feasibility
Not having a code of conduct is not particularly a dealbreaker for me because I am relatively well-adjusted and secure as a person myself. If someone I am trying to interact with or get help from gives me antisocial lip or tries to deride me, I am well and good in stopping my interactions with them immediately and seeking out help from someone else. Having a good code of conduct with enforcement expedites this process because it guarantees that I am either going to get help from a normal person, or I get to have the gratification of seeing the person belittling me for asking questions get reprimanded by someone with higher authority and more experience anyway. Although both of these things are nice to have, they are not mandatory and I am self-sufficient enough to find someone who is more respectful.

Enforcement of the Code of Conduct for a project is incredibly difficult outside of established forums and messaging channels, but within these aforementioned avenues of interaction it should be very easy to moderate the behavior of people since there are many tools such as flagging and reporting that minimize the burden on moderators when it comes to finding troublemakers. It is impossible to find absolutely every infraction, but as long as people care about maintaining the code of conduct and keep each other accountable through reminders or outright whistleblowing it should be doable.

