---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Skibidi Git Coded, or Splendiforous?
---

## Git refresher
This week we did a fun git activity that was like a guided udemy lecture but in person. It was an effective refresher for me because I haven't used git in a while outside of cloning and pushing, and I'm glad I had the opportunity to brush off the dust and get back into using slightly more complex features like pulling and working with branches with other people doing the same in real time.

<!--more-->

## Contributing!
I didn't actually contribute to an open source project this time around, but we started on a mock group project to create a firefox extension and we used git for version control. We haven't faced any problems because everyone is doing their fair share for the most part, and we have efficiently found avenues such as Discord to coordinate who does what as well as figure out what features we want to put in the project. I think we could do well with a trello board or something to formally organize what we want to work on and how to divide work, as our current system is just passing stuff on through word of mouth which makes it hard to keep things organized and easy to forget who promised to do what.

My group's project for the class is to make an extension that overlays funny images over YouTube thumbnails automatically. Personally, I have made the skeleton for the script that our extension runs on to do everything as well as some starter code. In the skeleton, I have laid out all the functions that the extension needs to work as well as comprehensive logic for how it all comes together to do everything. My teammates have made the structure for all the files as well as found and cropped to size some assets that the project needs to overlay over thumbnails.